DOC: add new glossary terms (#17263)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/glossary.rst

Glossary
********

.. glossary::

   (`n`,)
       A tuple with one element. The trailing comma distinguishes a one-element
       tuple from a parenthesized ``n``.

   -1
       Used as a dimension entry, ``-1`` instructs NumPy to choose the length
       that will keep the total number of elements the same.

   ``...``
       An :py:data:`Ellipsis`

       **When indexing an array**, shorthand that the missing axes, if they
       exist, are full slices.

           >>> a = np.arange(24).reshape(2,3,4)

           >>> a[...].shape
           (2, 3, 4)

           >>> a[...,0].shape
           (2, 3)

           >>> a[0,...].shape
           (3, 4)

           >>> a[0,...,0].shape
           (3,)

>        It can be used at most once; ``a[...,0,...]`` raises an ``IndexError``.

Reviewer: Could link as:
```suggestion
       It can be used at most once; ``a[...,0,...]`` raises an :exc:`IndexError`.
```

       **In printouts**, NumPy substitutes ``...`` for the middle elements of
       large arrays. To see the entire array, use

>        :doc:`numpy.printoptions. <reference/generated/numpy.printoptions>`

Reviewer: Punctuation probably makes sense outside the link
```suggestion
       :doc:`numpy.printoptions <reference/generated/numpy.printoptions>`.
```
But is there any reason we can't just use
```suggestion
       `numpy.printoptions`
```
which should link to the function?

   ``:``
      The Python :term:`python:slice`
      operator. In ndarrays, slicing can be applied to every
      axis:

          >>> a = np.arange(24).reshape(2,3,4)
          >>> a
          array([[[ 0,  1,  2,  3],
                  [ 4,  5,  6,  7],
                  [ 8,  9, 10, 11]],
          <BLANKLINE>
                 [[12, 13, 14, 15],
                  [16, 17, 18, 19],
                  [20, 21, 22, 23]]])
          <BLANKLINE>
          >>> a[1:,-2:,:-1]
          array([[[16, 17, 18],
                  [20, 21, 22]]])

      Trailing slices can be omitted: ::

          >>> a[1] == a[1,:,:]
          array([[ True,  True,  True,  True],
                 [ True,  True,  True,  True],
                 [ True,  True,  True,  True]])

      In contrast to Python, where slicing creates a copy, in NumPy slicing
      creates a :term:`view`.

>       For details, see :ref:`Combining advanced and basic indexing <combining-advanced-and-basic-indexing>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For details, see :ref:`combining-advanced-and-basic-indexing`.
```
I think the title is pulled from the anchor automatically.

       For details, see :ref:`combining-advanced-and-basic-indexing`.

   ``<``
       In a dtype declaration, indicates that the data is
       `little-endian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness>`_
       (the bracket is big on the right). ::

           >>> dt = np.dtype('<f')  # little-endian single-precision float

   ``>``
       In a dtype declaration, indicates that the data is

>        `big-endian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness>`_

Reviewer: Tempting to reuse the glossary term further down
```suggestion
       :term:`big-endian`
```

        >>> dt = np.dtype('>H') # big-endian unsigned short

   advanced indexing
      Rather than using a :doc:`scalar <reference/arrays.scalars>` or slice as
      an index, an axis can be indexed with an array, providing fine-grained
      selection. This is known as :ref:`advanced indexing<advanced-indexing>`
      or ``fancy indexing``.

> 

Author: reformatted to consistently use two newlines before an entry

Glossary
********

.. glossary::

    (`n`,)

      A tuple with one element. The trailing comma distinguishes a one-element
      tuple from a parenthesized ``n``.

    -1

      Used as a dimension entry, ``-1`` instructs NumPy to choose the length
      that will keep the total number of elements the same.

>     ``...``

Author: also know as an [ellipsis](https://docs.python.org/3/library/constants.html#Ellipsis)

Reviewer 2: Might want to add a link to ``:data:`python:Ellipsis` `` here, just as is done for ``:``.

       Fast element-wise operations, called a :term:`ufunc`, operate on arrays.

   array_like
       Any sequence that can be interpreted as an ndarray.  This includes
       nested lists, tuples, scalars and existing arrays.

   array scalar
       For uniformity in handling operands, NumPy treats
       a :doc:`scalar <reference/arrays.scalars>` as an array of zero
       dimension.

   attribute
       A property of an object that can be accessed using ``obj.attribute``,
       e.g., ``shape`` is an attribute of an array::

         >>> x = np.array([1, 2, 3])
         >>> x.shape

>          (3,)

Reviewer: This is also present in the python glossary (`` :term:`python:attribute` ``). Should we omit it?

Reviewer 3: Absolutely, yes, omit. This is the content I wanted to get rid of. I don't know why it shows as an addition.

       Any sequence that can be interpreted as an ndarray.  This includes
       nested lists, tuples, scalars and existing arrays.

   array scalar
      For uniformity in handling operands, NumPy treats
      a :doc:`scalar <reference/arrays.scalars>` as an array of zero
      dimension.

   attribute
       A property of an object that can be accessed using ``obj.attribute``,

>        e.g., ``shape`` is an attribute of an array::

Author: As far as I could tell there was one entry with 4 spaces, all the rest were 3. I would prefer to use 3 since then the content is more clearly delineated. Making the document 4 for the label and 8 for the content would require a reformat to keep line length down, and could be done in a future PR if desired.

>        e.g., ``shape`` is an attribute of an array::

Author: or were you refering to the content indenting 6 and 7, like this example?

>        e.g., ``shape`` is an attribute of an array::

Author: reformatted content, including docstrings. At some point we should push the whole document in 1 space so that it has 4 spaces for the labels and 8 for the content, not 3 and 7.

>        e.g., ``shape`` is an attribute of an array::

Reviewer: I'm talking about how "A property" (155)  and "For uniformity" (149) have different indent levels.

I'd prefer to use four spaces everywhere, but that's fine for a follow-up PR.

      instance, in the example, the last two values of 8's index must be 0 and
      2. Since 8 appears in the second of the two 2x3's, the first index must
      be 1:

        >>> a[1,0,2]
        8

      A convenient way to count dimensions in a printed vector is to
      count ``[`` symbols after the open-parenthesis. This is
      useful in distinguishing, say, a (1,2,3) shape from a (2,3) shape:

        >>> a = np.arange(6).reshape(2,3)
        >>> a.shape
        (2, 3)
        >>> a
        array([[0, 1, 2],
               [3, 4, 5]])

        >>> a = np.arange(6).reshape(1,2,3)
        >>> a.shape
        (1, 2, 3)
        >>> a
        array([[[0, 1, 2],
                [3, 4, 5]]])

   .base

      If an array does not own its memory, then its
      :doc:`base <reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.base>` attribute
      returns the object whose memory the array is referencing. That object
      may be borrowing the memory from still another object, so the
      owning object may be ``a.base.base.base...``. Despite advice to the
      contrary, testing ``base`` is not a surefire way to determine if two

>       arrays are :term:`view`\ s.

Reviewer: This feels like it belongs in the docs for `ndarray.base` instead of the glossary

Author: @bjnath?

Reviewer 3: I glossed it in hope of reaching newcomers who might not think to look up ndarray.base. 

At the same time, the docstring would benefit from a warning that one call to base may not be the end of the line. 

Perhaps these approaches can coexist.

Reviewer: Perhaps then just
```
   base
       The `ndarray.base` property of arrays.
```

Reviewer: > I glossed it in hope of reaching newcomers who might not think to look up ndarray.base.

I'm not convinced newcomers will even have heard of `base`. Ideally we'd just make sure to link to `ndarray.base` the first time we mention it. I don't mind having glossary entries that link to methods and properties to start users on the right track though.

Reviewer 3: They serve different purposes. The level of explanation in the glossary entry is inappropriate for a reference entry. We don't  want docstrings to include an essay for newbies. The docstring should get just one additional sentence.  But +1 for a link.

Reviewer 3: > I'm not convinced newcomers will even have heard of base.

There's advice on the web that base is how you can tell a copy from a view. That's the only reason I troubled to make an entry.

   dimension

       See :term:`axis`.

   dtype

       The datatype describing the (identically typed) elements in an ndarray.
       It can be changed to reinterpret the array contents. For details, see
       :doc:`Data type objects (dtype). <reference/arrays.dtypes>`

   fancy indexing

       Another term for :term:`advanced indexing`.

   field
       In a :term:`structured data type`, each sub-type is called a `field`.
       The `field` has a name (a string), a type (any valid dtype), and
       an optional `title`. See :ref:`arrays.dtypes`

   Fortran order
       See `column-major`

   flattened
       Collapsed to a one-dimensional array. See `numpy.ndarray.flatten`
       for details.

   homogeneous
       Describes a block of memory comprised of blocks, each block comprised of
       items and of the same size, and blocks are interpreted in exactly the
       same way. In the simplest case each block contains a single item, for
       instance int32 or float64.

   immutable
       An object that cannot be modified after execution is called
       immutable.  Two common examples are strings and tuples.

>    iterable

Reviewer: Happy to declare this out of scope for this PR, but `` :term:`python:iterable` `` exists.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, doesn't belong here. Immutable and iterable are entries I didn't want in the NumPy glossary because they're Python glossary terms. But as @mattip notes above, they're preexisting entries -- not '+'.

>        immutable.  Two common examples are strings and tuples.

Reviewer: Immutable is also in the python glossary, with a longer description

Reviewer 3: My glossary doesn't include this. As I understand it, only the '+' in this PR are up for review; these denote wholly new entries. Deleted and revised entries appear as diffs in two other PRs.

Reviewer: Which are those PRs?

Reviewer 3: Deletions was #17264.

For revised terms, see @mattip's comment: https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/17263#issuecomment-689575679

Reviewer: Are you suggesting we open a new PR for further deletions?

         matrix([[ 7, 10],
               [15, 22]])

   ndarray
       See *array*.

   object array

       An array whose dtype is ``object``; that is, it contains references to
       Python objects. Indexing the array dereferences the Python objects, so
       unlike other ndarrays, an object array has the ability to hold
       heterogeneous objects.

   ravel

       `numpy.ravel` and `numpy.ndarray.flatten` both flatten an ndarray. ``ravel``
       will return a view if possible; ``flatten`` always returns a copy.

>        Flattening collapses a multi-dimensional array to a single dimension;

Reviewer 3: [Google style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#compounds) suggests no hyphen (i.e., "multidimensional").
```suggestion
       Flattening collapses a multidimensional array to a single dimension;
```

         matrix([[ 7, 10],
               [15, 22]])

   ndarray
       See *array*.

   object array

       An array whose dtype is ``object``; that is, it contains references to
       Python objects. Indexing the array dereferences the Python objects, so
       unlike other ndarrays, an object array has the ability to hold
       heterogeneous objects.

   ravel

>        :doc:`numpy.ravel \
>        <reference/generated/numpy.ravel>`
>        and :doc:`numpy.flatten \
>        <reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.flatten>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       `numpy.ravel` and `numpy.flatten`
```

unless I'm missing something

       both flatten an ndarray. ``ravel`` will return a view if possible;
       ``flatten`` always returns a copy.

>        Flattening collapses a multimdimensional array to a single dimension;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Flattening collapses a multi-dimensional array to a single dimension;
```

       >>> x[:, 1]
       array([2, 4])

   stride

>       Physical memory is one-dimensional; ``stride`` maps an index in an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Physical memory is one-dimensional; a ``stride`` maps an index in an
```

Author: reworked this section differently, please re-review

      N-dimensional ndarray to an address in memory. For an N-dimensional

>       array, stride is an N-element tuple; advancing from index ``i`` to index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      array, a tuple of N strides is needed; advancing from index ``i`` to index
```

Author: array, its ``stride`` attribute is an N-element tuple ...

Reviewer: The attribute is called `strides` with an `s`

      ``i+1`` on axis ``n`` means adding ``a.strides[n]`` bytes to the
      address.

>       Stride is computed automatically from an array's dtype and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Strides are computed automatically from an array's dtype and
```
